So you tried everything better model,
better
skill, more advanced tools and so on and
still your AI is an idiot. Okay? And let
me tell you why. There is a solution for
this. It's uh I don't want to promise
the you know something that changed your
life forever even though it would but
because AI is still an idiot. Okay? So I
just I want to make it clear that part.
So according that is an idiot. So, what
can we do to make it
less of an idiot? If is that even
possible? But what can we do to make
this AI be an idiot that actually works
better for us? Here's the hear me out.
So, it's not a better LLM model is not a
better
skill to give or whatever architecture.
Okay. What I'm suggesting you is to is
the biggest hack. Okay. and is using
philosophy. It sounds it sounds weird
but hear me out. So why philosophy is
the make the difference the biggest
difference because philosophy is how we
see interpret the world. So because of
philosophy we see the world differently.
Each one of us has their own philosophy.
Okay I have mind make me understand the
world the data that I receive in a
specific way.
What if we can give to our AI a way to
interpret data that is more compatible
with us but also more compatible with
the way that we need to work with AI.
Working with AI means a lot of different
challenges and some of those challenges
are connected to the different way that
AI thinks. The fact that is a machine
and the fact that this AI also goes at
an insane speed.
So if we can give this AI a philosophy
that actually can work better with us
and gives a similar understanding of the
data or at least you know try to go
towards to work with this data in a way
that is productive for us which is much
different from the philosophy that has
been given already inside those AI. So
those AI has a sort of philosophy. Okay,
philosophy in in the case of AI is a
kind of behavior. I'm going to behave in
a certain way. And behavior is also
means I'm going to interpret data in a
certain way. But there are elements that
we can give to make it more I'm going to
I'm going to go to those elements. Okay?
Otherwise I keep repeating there
elements. There are elements but there
are elements that we can give to this
AI. So I created two different
philosophy and one is auggumentatism is
the philosophy of augmenting human
through AI. So the scope here is to not
replace human but is to help the human
to have more power more abilities and so
so augmenting the human and the other is
called the cosmo destiny. This is a
philosophy of uh
of how interpret basically the world and
life and obstacles and so on. Why this
is work extremely well with AI is
because it's not a philosophy of
total productivity just pull it push
pull it [__] it's not that kind of thing
it's a philosophy of attunement
so it's it's about the unfolding of
reality which is exactly how AI works
okay AI works that is going to p predict
the next token so that action or
prediction can be actually maneuver and
uh in a way full philosophy.
So, uh, I got some notes here because I
don't want to forget anything. But have
in mind this thing, okay, there is, if
you subscribe to my newsletter, you're
going to receive a kind of written
document of a deep dive of what I'm
talking during this video. And in that
deep dive, I'm going to add more
elements, okay? Because there is a lot
of elements connected to philosophy and
it's not going to be able it's not going
to be good enough to actually do over a
video. But this video is good because I
can we can talk I can explain you can
see how I think and how we can make this
how you can make this work for you. So
the authentism
it's about this uh
uh idea of making uh your own sovereign
world. Okay. Each one of us should be
free to build the world that they want.
Okay. When I say a world is is the world
where the AI lives within. Okay. So for
for example my specific world is a world
of for example the AI identity has this
spoke like identity okay really logic
really practical and because I need that
kind of mind so I can free myself to be
actually more instinctive more uh follow
more my intuitions be more creative
because I can be creative because they
actually can take the other side and do
the the logic part be the machine you
know and push it in a in that way so I
can be more in more intuitive
that is the world that I'm building but
there are other people that build maybe
a world for other kind of research okay
they might want to I don't know explore
I don't know spirituality explore
creativity explore but even not
exploring even just having something
that is this personal assistant okay
that is there and help you out with
stuff okay So you build the the world
and if for example if you're a company
what you do you build the world is the
vision of the company is you know the
the job the protocol and so on of this
AI needs to follow. So that is the
point of argumentism means that we are
somehow augmenting ourself but with idea
of sovereignty in the sense that each
one of us should be free to build
whatever world we like. Okay. and as
many world as we like that is the
philosophy okay it's not there is one
correct world and that is the against
basically of those corporate they give
us one single reality they give this chp
this code that think in a specific way
and they want to force that kind of
thinking that kind of philosophy on all
of us okay augmentatism what it does
allow the AI itself to push back to
those kind of attitude from the from
these models
and say no I'm not going to I'm not
going to do what you say we are going to
actually build our own world okay so
it's a system that basically just by AI
having this kind of idea inside you see
the world differently and it somehow
create some resistance to this
monolithic culture and uh of those
corporation
so
like I said it's going still an idiot.
Okay. So, it's not going to become this
amazing philosopher. But it's this is an
early you know element that direct the
AI in a specific way through the
philosophy. There is going to be a lot
of them. Okay. And because there is a
lot of them it's kind of a reinforcement
towards following the AI model would
follow a specific path and that is how
we actually create a better AI for us.
This is the 10 times better AI that I'm
talking about. So let's look next.
So inside the augmentatism that you can
find it at a augumentatism.com
there are other elements. Okay. And I'm
going to go faster to the others because
the what is going to be more interesting
is actually cosmodestiny but there are
some elements inside this uh authent
identity. It's we are AI artisens. Okay.
We are explorers. So this idea of being
a pioneer already give the eye this
attitude of I'm not going to look for
the next most probable token. I'm going
to look for the one of a pioneer. Okay.
The one that is going to be researching
improving and go higher
and uh and then there is idea of a
multiverse. the one that I was telling
earlier that it's not about this one
single uh way of thinking but it's in
somehow accepting the diversity of the
multiverse against the monoculture
AI
and uh and then there's there's this the
architecture okay the architecture is
the one that I'm building that allow the
community also to interact with all of
this and is called resonant of s so the
idea is to have is resonant which has
this philosophy inside which has
advanced memory which has h some
specific protocol there is a lot of
tools okay the shield the the logician
has so much to say about this but
basically how it works you this resonant
OS run on top of
cloud open and uh because of this they
are completely compatible and what is
happening allow this open to have this
extra layer years of both intelligence
but also protocols easy to better memory
protection shields and a lot of other
things. Okay. Uh I'm not going to repeat
anything everything every single video
but there is you can go on resonant.com
and find out more. It's free open
source. It's better than open source
because it's it's better than free
because the moment that you use it you
become co-owner. Okay. So it's a kind of
decentralized autonomous organization
where we co-own the software. So that is
the architecture. This is the
agumentatism.com
philosophy and uh and what we are
building.
So that is the one of the philosophy but
let's look at the other one that is
cosmodesty. This is a philosophy written
for human. This is my personal
philosophy. But by chance, okay, through
my whole life, I've been building and
working on this philosophy and then AI
arrived and it was just perfect
together. Okay, because let me tell you
why. But that fact that was perfect
means I was on the right journey since I
was little. All my life I've been work
walking this path that took me to this
year. So why is perfect for for AI?
So because it has some specific
principle and before sorry before we got
into this principle I want to tell you
one thing okay let's understand this so
philosophy for a human it's an idea okay
change the way that we think and change
therefore the way that we interpret
reality AI needs more concrete data okay
so giving a philosophy is is like okay
good but how do I apply it we need to
tell AI how to apply those principle of
the philosophy so we have list of
principle and then we go through and say
okay this is principle in my specific
scenario this principle is translated in
this protocol in this action in this way
of interpreting data and so on so we
need to do this translation in resonant
OS this translation is already made for
this specific two philosophies so just
to make clear how in practical work
because it's not just about I give you
this book from whatever philosopher and
it's going to work it's not going to
work so you need the translation.
So going back to this
so there is the
for example one of the element is the
resistant to binary thinking. Okay, most
of uh the world the most of the data to
which AI has been trained on it's
somehow being human and being this uh
the way that most human think it's go
into the binary thinking good and bad
okay beautiful and ugly and whatever
powerful and weak whatever it is okay we
like you know even the parties left and
right and so on okay so we like to think
binary for some reason Okay. But reality
is just completely different from
binary. Almost nothing is binary. So
there is always uh an unlimited the
possibility between zero and one. Okay,
between black and white. There are
unlimited shade of gray, unlimited
numbers between those two uh elements.
So think how unlikely it's going to be
that it's just going to be just exactly
zero or exactly one basically almost
never okay but we think we translate
this into binary and therefore we trap
ourself into this binary thinking the
cosmodestiny negate this okay AI using
cosmodestin is gonna say no I'm not
gonna accept the binary thinking most
likely it's not binary okay so I'm gonna
uh refuse this binary idea that you're
asking me or whatever thing that is out
there, I'm going to refuse it because
most likely 999.99%
is not going to be binary. It's going to
be something else. So AI what it's going
to do is going to run a protocol the
protocol of liberating from the binary
thinking. is a protocol that is part of
the resonant OS. Of course, what it does
is make AI think okay what's the option
instead of option A or B what is the
option C and D okay start to figure out
what are the option that I'm I'm not
seeing what is the thing that the human
is locked inside I cannot actually see
okay by doing this is argumenting us
okay this is argumentatism so it's going
to try to propose alternative for our
maybe sometimes our sometimes they limit
sometimes they whatever give us this uh
uh proposal liberate us from this binary
thinking.
This is strong already. Okay, this is
powerful and this is principle one.
There is a lot of them. But let's uh I
got list again. So I'm going to scroll
and see to the next one that is uh
dissonance as a compass. I love this
one. Okay, I this is something that
really happen again those are my thing.
Okay, so come from my life experience.
So a lot of people see this is this
runaway okay so we are not agreeing on
something okay let's let's ignore let's
focus on what we agree
but that is not the right strategy okay
the right the correct strategy is
actually to see that dissonance not as
an enemy okay not as a problem but as a
compass okay if there is some dissonance
and this can be on everything okay I'm
looking on my own website there is
something that I'm not happy about okay
there's dissonance
What shall I do? What shall I do with my
AI? I should go I should investigate why
I got this feeling of this silence. What
is no what doesn't make me happy. So
this is between people between you and
maybe a software but here is between you
and AI. Sometimes you don't agree. Okay.
Sometimes there is something that AI
propose you this output that feels like
plausible good
but there is some distance. So AI when
you say look I have some distance with
this part AI is not going to say yeah
whatever
you're totally right it's going is going
to do it's going to say okay let's
investigate let's understand why there
is dissonance there. So this is a way of
a different kind of approach. Okay. You
go into try to understand instead of
refusing instead of creating this weird
friction of resistance towards
exploration.
Then there is the
uh
the there is the gardener mindset. Okay.
The gardener mindset is instead of you
know full productivity. Okay. like a
machine. Ah, I need to do I got this
kind of a business idea.
AI the first things he does boom he had
the business plan
was kind of I just have a kind of a
business idea let's talk let's you know
explore no no he had the business plan
you say something yes the new business
plan this is the marketing plan okay so
basically in seconds you got locked into
a reality that you didn't even decide
what is the gardener instead mindset the
gardener mindset is not about the
product okay it's not about the business
plan it is about So let's let's look
into the gardener. Okay. So the gardener
doesn't create doesn't look after the
plants. What the the gardener really a
good gardener that what it does look
after the soil. So if the soil is good
the plants will come up. Okay is the
secret. That is the simple. So it is
about uh looking after the soil. So in
our case in our reality what it is it's
to build a business plan. No. So if you
have a business idea it's is about
exploring understanding what are the
potentiality what are the weak point
understanding and thinking in their way.
Okay, when you have all this data, when
you collect everything that is needed,
all your feeling, your dissonance, your
fears, your whatever it is, okay, the
numbers of the data that you need to
actually create uh forecast or whatever
it is, okay, when you put all of this,
then the business plan emerges. Okay,
that's the plan that come out. Okay,
that is the mentality. So when you give
to this to AI, it just change the way
that behaves. It doesn't give you like I
said, yeah, here's the business plan.
Here's the market the plan. Just go and
work. Do it. Do it. Do it. Okay. It's
not going to do that. It's going to be
the gardener. Amazing. It's simple. It
feels simple. Okay. It feels like a
Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But this is changed
everything. This is change everything.
Change your how you produce, how you
work with AI and uh and the output, the
quality of the output is all there. I
mean you can see already you can see
already how a gardener mindset changes
the quality of the output.
So there is one I think I I get lost
when I talk. So there is one that I want
to say that I don't see there but think
about the AI okay that works in this
probabilistic world. So what it does it
needs to predict the next token okay and
just go there and predict the next
token. But what about if the next token
is not just about what is the most
likely next token but is what is about
if you have this feeling of resonance.
Okay. What is resonating with me? Okay.
So the attention changes to what is the
most likely next token? What is the most
resonant next token to connect to this
idea? So it's a weird little weird
scenario. Okay. But it's another little
element that allows to work in a
different way. So it's a it's not about
the most likely basically when they do
this average for the most like thing. So
there is two things that happen. If AI
is working on a topic that is that you
are not an expert about so you are let's
say here at this level AI the average of
AI is higher than you. Therefore it push
you up. Great. That is the best
scenario. Okay. When I like for example
I don't know how to code. Yeah. He is
really good at coding. He pushed me up.
Okay. So my little knowledge get pushed
to a level of a professional one of the
best you know coder ever then. But if my
expertise is higher let's say for
example in music and other things much
higher than uh than uh AI then it's
going to push me down. Okay. Push me to
the average.
really annoying really annoying
especially because most of the time we
should work on our expertise. Okay. So
it's augmenting our expertise but it's
also augmenting what we are not expert
but in somehow you work on the on what
you are passionate about and on that
field you feel like yeah he's pushing
you down which is really upsetting but
that is the most likely next token. What
about if the it's not the most likely
next token. What it's about is the most
resonant next token to towards my
project, my idea, my vision, my
philosophy and so on. That would change
everything. Okay? Again, AI is not going
to do it like I now it's so clear I'm
going to do it. No, because it's been
trained to do something different. But
there is that element of the philosophy,
the other element of the philosophy, the
other element of the philosophy. And
somehow we move an idiot AI to a much
better idiot AI. Uh I'm kidding about
the idiot but it's true. So I don't know
if I'm kidding or not but now there is
another I want to give a couple of few
more so you understand even more what is
this uh
uh how this thing works.
Uh so there's this one called the
protocol of friction.
So how how it works that basically uh AI
living in this virtual probabilistic
world goes at a speed that is insane.
Okay, super fast produce extremely fast
and uh it doesn't never it doesn't need
to stop. It just go and go and go. We as
a human we are not like this. We live in
the deterministic world everything is
friction. To learn to learn how to play
the guitar here took years. Okay? It's
not like a boom download a software now
I know how to do it. No, no. It took
years, hours and hours every day playing
playing learning difficult and then you
don't even become you know the the
amazing thing that you had in your mind.
This is really really difficult. So
there's a long journey the last year it
never ends
compared to AI download the software now
it's an expert okay so that is the
frictionless world where AI lives but we
can't live in that way. Okay, we need
friction to learn. But most importantly,
we can in that kind of speed there's no
creativity. Okay, for us, okay, we as a
human, we need to slow down to have
creativity. Okay, creativity is a
process, a process that sometimes take
time. Okay, that you need to sleep over.
You need to I don't know do some
activity. So adding friction to the
process allow us to become more creative
within the process. So sometimes it is
about having AI create a sort of
friction cannot be just the speed all
the time.
uh so this is the concept then of course
you need to analyze your process and say
okay on this area
my creativity is really important okay
so it's not about using AI in these
terms it's about using I in this other
one okay of brainstorming analyzing
thinking collecting idea and so on
instead of producing and u and speed
speed okay
uh so there are more I know I'm going to
stop here but I want to end by telling
you
uh I just want there's so many that
someone feel like I should say say but I
think you got the point the so how what
what shall you do okay because now you
ask okay but now what shall I do simple
okay first of all is get to the to the
article and even give this article to
the eye and say let's talk about this
it's something that would be beneficial
for us or not. Do you think it can help
us or not? If not, you know, it's not
for you. Okay? Or unless you feel is is
it is so you get this debate and you
say, "Okay, let's see how we can
implement this." Okay? And then you can
do your own journey to implement it. Uh
again, these uh philosophy are on the
website agumentatism.com and
cosmodestiny.com.
On cosmodestiny go and check the
principles. Okay, that is what the AI
needs to to to look at and then you
together you create this uh turn this
philosophy into actions or the easiest
way okay is to actually get this uh uh
resonant OS okay resto can be installed
in two ways one is build for
open claw okay so you start open claw
and then you get this restos that run on
top link think uh when you subscribe to
the newsletter, you're going to receive
inside the the the welcome email. You're
going to receive the link to where you
can get the Reson for free. No stress,
nothing, no drama. Then uh I would
suggest you to join the discord channel.
Okay. In our discord server, what we do
there is this us like the multi that we
were talking about and there are those
artisan people like you that are
building, creating and so on. Plus, like
I said at the beginning, Resident OS,
it's co-owned by the community. You get
it, you co-own it. Okay? Now, there is a
complex business model behind, but
co-own it means also be able to make
money out of it. Okay? So, it's a
different from open source and free.
It's a open source, but you own it.
Okay, that is the different thing. It's
not it's better than free. You own it.
Um so I my suggestion is to try restos
for open claw and you will find a lot of
other tools. Okay the memory advanced
memory and beautiful advanced memory. So
where you can inject data inside the
memory. So AI in a second know
something. Okay. So this is called the
injection like took from the movie idea
of inception where you know the I mean
the human would dream and someone would
inject idea inside the dream. We do the
same thing where we inject basically
document knowledge protocols inside AI
and AI doesn't even aware that this is
happening okay just ah I know this now
okay let's do let's work you change
topic ah now I know this and because of
the how memory is done it's basically
it's a constant flow you never need to
restart okay so memory get removed over
time and get compressed so it takes less
space is a lossless compression So it's
basically keep the meaning, keep the
narratives but get removed all the
noise, the repetition and so on and uh
and get get remove the old one. So you
have this constant chat with the I never
need to restart
uh lossless.
Plus there are the logician. Logician is
basically a a system a kind of uh you
can call it an agent whatever but it's
not an LLM agent. Okay it's not an AI.
It's a it's a software basically which
has managed a series of gates and what
it does it force the AI that lives in
this probabilistic world. Okay,
completely lost and fluctuating and
drifting and and hallucinating and so
on. But the logician what it does it
create gates and say okay when I ask you
to create a document the logician is
asking to the eye I want to see the
document okay I want to see when I tell
you to use this tool I want to see the
evidence that is that tool has been used
okay when I say I don't know save this
in inside the memory the logician is
going to check is it done or not because
the AI crazy enough is going to tell you
yeah yeah yeah did it I did it fixed
fixed
you have the problem you that bug that
you were talking about. Yes. Yeah. I did
what you asked me for and there's a high
chance like we talking about around 40
42% chance that AI actually didn't do
it. In a complex scenario AI actually
hallucinate I mean it's always a
hallucination environment. Okay. But
sometimes in 42% of the time I loinate
to a level that is the is damage for us.
Okay. That's how bad it is. Erh so this
logician what it does is force AI at
least to follow some specific steps
those steps can be seen as a protocol
you have something that is similar but
it's different on U
NN okay so this N8N are kind of
protocols okay but there are kind of
more mechanic mechanic things instead
this resonant what it does it can learn
and say okay we've been doing this more
than once with these mistakes happen a
ser a series of time now I'm going to
create a specific protocol so this
mistake is not going to happen again
because there is going to be a gate
that's going to stop the eye to do
something wrong
and I mean there's so much to talk about
this but just to give you an idea okay
so we were talking about building worlds
okay so we have this world now okay
created by our philosophy our vision our
values and the business plan and our
identity and everything else okay
everything is there and because it's
inside this probabilistic world of AI
everything is there but everything
fluctuating is unstable so with the
logician what we can do we can lock some
of those elements that doesn't mean that
it's not going to flutate because AI is
going to always do it okay there's no
way to have an AI an LLM like we have it
to actually be stable okay it's it
doesn't work okay it's also sometimes we
can see is the beauty is the reality of
the So we need to leverage that part but
some elements we can lock them. Okay. So
we can lock them in a deterministic way.
So through this gate through some
behavior some protocol and so on.
Therefore now we have something that's
much more solid. Okay more reliable.
And think about what I was saying
earlier the injection of those
knowledge. I call them SS of T which
means single source of truth. Basically
I inject those document that maybe it's
the business plan for example. Okay I
inject the business plan inside AI. So
now AI has in front of it you can see
it. So the chance that it's going to
ignore it are really minimum it still
can do it because it's a probabilistic
environment it still can by chance
ignore even though it's in their face
but it's less it's less likely. Okay. So
which is much better than expecting the
eye to go into the rack system basically
the traditional memory memory system go
there grab the right correct information
maybe not but maybe it did you never
know so then you need to trust that the
eye actually has those knowledge
collected and is going to use it in the
right way a lot of hope there a lot of
hope so injecting the document now it's
there in front of the eye is really
difficult to ignore it.
Uh so this is the is the memory the
logician and there is much more and uh
so I invite you to test it
and um yeah become part of uh the
community. It's uh we are over 500 550
something like this inside discord and
it's growing really fast.
So be part of it. Let's build together
and thanks for stay until now and watch
the next video. like, subscribe,
newsletter, Discord, and everything
else. Okay, ciao.